Many are aware that extensive travel arrangements are needed to assist special full-time servants
in a foreign field to attend one of the 2019 international conventions.
What role does World Headquarters travel play in these arrangements?
How are donated funds saved?
How has travel been arranged in the past?
The following report will not only give us a brief history of organisational travel,
but also to help us to see the behind-the-scenes activities that are necessary to help with
this year's international convention series.
Travel has always been an integral part about organisation's spiritual activity.
Jesus said, as recorded at Acts chapter 1 and verse 8,
you will be witnesses of me to the most distant part of the earth.
In 1880, Brother Russell followed the example set by Jesus and embarked on a preaching tour.
At first Brother Russell travelled throughout the northeastern United States and then internationally.
In 1911, he travelled some 35,000 miles to lands, including China, India, Japan, and the Philippines.
Then in 1914, more than 300 brothers were sent to what they referred to at the time as practically every city and district in the world, presenting Bible lectures.
Well, Brother Brother Ferd and Brother Norr likewise travelled extensively, encouraging the household of faith.
And then in 1943, with the inception of Gilead School,
where this involved inviting hundreds of students every year, training them, and then dispatching them to various missionary assignments around the world.
One day I received a phone call to go upstairs and the 10th floor in Sebrother Norr.
Usually, that put a little bit of fury in you, but I knew I hadn't done anything terribly wrong, so...
They said, well, we want you to come up and work in the office and take over the desk and took care of the missionary's visas, getting them to their assignments.
Well, back in those days, this was in the 50s.
Generally, air fares were pretty high, but most were sent out at that time by not a fancy ship, but a cargo ship.
The missionaries didn't mind that slowboat trip to their assignment.
Gradually, air fares came down, and we began to use airplanes to get most of the brothers to their assignments.
Brother Norr, as the branches expanded, saw the need to get out and visit the branches.
So that desk, which became the travel desk, would arrange for flights, so the work got started for travel in that way, and then we expanded later on, of course.
Since 2013, the World Headquarters Travel Department has continued to manage this ever-increasing task.
What travel is arranged?
International transfers for special full-time service.
Travel for medical reasons.
Fagiliate and other theocratic schools, and much more.
Some 80 branch officers around the world have thus far been assisted.
How does World Headquarters Travel save valuable kingdom funds?
Imagine yourself on a plane.
You paid $500 for your ticket, and you were happy with that price.
Talking to the person on your left, you learned that he paid $800.
Now you're really happy.
But the person on your right paid just $300.
This is often the reality with travel.
Using a global booking tool, World Headquarters Travel works hard to avoid paying the higher prices.
We lock in the middle price and then search for the cheapest.
Sometimes we search for weeks for prices to drop.
I have searched for some bookings for months to get better prices, and I have found them.
Also, we use donated airline credits and mileage to purchase tickets.
By consolidating various travel that is done worldwide,
we're able to obtain discounts with airlines and suppliers,
and by these agreements, we're able to have access to lower fares,
additional checked luggage, along with free day changes.
Many automated systems are also used.
For example, even after a ticket is purchased,
we have a program that will continually reprice the ticket,
checking for a lower fare up until the departure date.
In 2016, a program was released in the United States
to allow for donations of transferable hotel points,
airline miles and credits, along with gift cards.
The program, Donate Rewards Points, helps us to reduce travel costs.
One couple that were determined to simplify their life,
redeemed many of their rewards programs,
their donations saved thousands of dollars,
and many of their rewards points would have otherwise just expired.
One Bethel couple decided to donate their personal airline miles,
over 200,000.
Their donation allowed the organization to save $7,000.
Along with their travel, the organization's wise use of hotel points
has conserved donated funds.
When our brothers and sisters plan to attend conventions
and assemblies or visit Bethel,
they're often provided a list of hotels with room rates
the branch has negotiated.
Just as frequent flyers earn mileage,
the organization earns hotel points.
These points are then redeemed to meet travel needs throughout the world.
For over 100 years,
theocratic conventions have brought encouragement,
excitement and joy to God's servants.
In 1886, the watchtower invited readers to a three-day general meeting,
following the memorial of Christ death.
Thus beginning our rich history of annual conventions.
The year 1922 saw a landmark convention in Cedar Point, Ohio,
with attendees from the United States and Europe.
By 1950, delegates were attending conventions from 67 lands,
and by 1958, from 123 lands.
Over 50 years later, our conventions continue to grow.
In August 2018, congregations learned that in 2019,
international conventions will be held in 24 locations.
A record number of invited delegates are receiving help in planning their travel.
Once selected as delegates,
brothers and sisters log on to JW2019.org,
a website organized under the Teaching Committee office.
Delegates can select hotels and airlines with discounted rates.
For activities, besides having a day planned for field service
and an evening gathering with the local friends,
delegates can also indicate which branch-sponsored activities they prefer,
such as a visit to the branch office,
or possibly a tour of local attractions.
Similar preparations are made for thousands of missionaries and full-time servants.
Bethel's travel website allows them to search for flights.
Select an itinerary and submit their choices
to World Headquarters Travel for processing.
Then the excited missionaries, along with their family and friends,
can focus on the spiritual refreshment that the conventions bring.
And all of us are looking forward to meeting these missionaries
from many distant lands.
What an exciting year it will be with the international conventions.
No doubt, God's organisation will keep traveling
to the most distant parts of the earth
to accomplish Jehovah's will until the end comes.